Colin Currie enjoys a diverse career as a percussion soloist in a variety of settings, very often as a concerto soloist where every season he visits major orchestras across Europe, North America and further afield. His repertoire now includes an impressive list of works written for him, including some of the most important pieces to be added to the percussion repertoire in recent years. Jennifer Higdon’s “Percussion Concerto”, dedicated to Colin, and premiered in November 2005 with the Philadelphia Orchestra under Christoph Eschenbach has become a classic, receiving more than forty performances so far. Steve Mackey’s “Time Release”, commissioned by four prestigious European groups and given its US premiere in February 2008 with The Baltimore Symphony at Carnegie Hall is another work that has pushed the art form further, both technically and musically. May 2008 saw the “staggering premiere”(Guardian Newspaper) of Simon Holt’s “a table of noises” which went on to win a British Composers Award in 2009, the first percussion concerto ever to do so. 2009 also saw the premiere of Kurt Schwertsik’s marimba concerto and Einojuhani Rautavaara’s concerto “Incantations” with both works programmed extensively in seasons to come. Many other works feature in his repertoire, and Colin enjoys a close relationship with both James MacMillan’s “Veni, Veni, Emmanuel” and Christopher Rouse’s “Der Gerette Alberich”, with well over 140 performances given thus far between these two works.

Highly regarded among colleagues, he has enjoyed various close collaborations with artists such as Katia and Marielle Labeque, The Los Angeles Guitar Quartet, Pierre-Laurent Aimard, Joshua Bell, and an increasing focus on the duo formed with trumpeter Hakan Hardenberger. The 2009/10 season also sees the first official concerts of The Colin Currie Group, a young ensemble devoted to performing the music of Steve Reich. Conductor relationships include those with Marin Alsop, David Robertson, Osmo Vanska, John Storgards, Hannu Lintu, Sir John-Elliott Gardiner and Roberto Abbado. He is also increasingly in demand as an artist-in-residence, most recently at Perth’s Horsecross Concert Hall and London’s Wigmore Hall.

Colin regularly combines his performances with educational activities and outreach work, and is Visiting Professor at The Royal Conservatoire in The Hague and at The Royal Academy of Music in London where he was recently honoured with the award of FRAM.

Generous support from Zildjian and MarimbaOne over the years has been extensive and invaluable, recently culminating in the release of his own Signature Series of mallets made by MarimbaOne.
