Craig Morris emerged onto the international classical music scene by winning the prestigious position of Principal Trumpet in the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, assuming that post from the legendary Adolph “Bud” Herseth in 2001. A desire to more fully focus on his own artistic projects, however, led Morris to leave his position with the CSO and pursue a career as a soloist and chamber musician. As a soloist, Morris has been featured with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the San Francisco Symphony, the Cabrillo Festival of Contemporary Music, the Beijing Modern Music Festival, the Sacramento Symphony, and the Miami Bach Society to name a few. A strong new music advocate, Morris has worked closely with prominent composers such as Jennifer Higdon, John Adams, John Corigliano, Steve Rouse, Osvaldo Golijov, Avner Dorman, Kevin Puts, Mason Bates, Aaron Jay Kernis, Dorothy Chang, and many more.
Prior to his appointment in Chicago, Morris held the position of Associate Principal Trumpet in the San Francisco Symphony and Principal Trumpet in the Sacramento Symphony. He has performed with artists such as Pinchas Zukerman, Martha Argeric, Daniel Barenboim, Marin Alsop, Michael Tilson Thomas, Miroslav Rostropovich, Gil Shaham, and Helene Grimaud among others. He has also had the fortune of performing in some of the world’s most prestigious concert halls: Carnegie Hall, the Musikverein in Vienna, the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam, the KKL Luzern, Boston Symphony Hall, the BBC Proms at Royal Albert Hall, and more. In addition to the previously mentioned orchestra positions, Craig has held/won the Fourth Trumpet position in both the Chicago and Boston Symphony Orchestras. Morris is currently the Professor of Trumpet and Chair of the Brass Program at the University of Miami, Frost School of Music, where he devotes himself to his teaching and his career as a soloist and chamber musician.
