Chosen Vale Director, Edward Carroll, was appointed Instructor of Trumpet and Coordinator of Brass Studies at the California Institute of the Arts in 2001 after serving as the International Chair of Brass Studies at London’s Royal Academy of Music and Professor of Trumpet at the Rotterdam (NL) Conservatory. He also teaches at Dartmouth College in New Hampshire and was appointed to the Bard Conservatory chamber music faculty in 2012. Mr. Carroll has given masterclasses at many of the world’s leading music schools, including the Juilliard School, the Eastman School of Music, the Curtis Institute of Music, the Interlochen Arts Academy, Northwestern and Rice Universities, the Bremen Trumpet Academy, the Conservatories of St. Petersburg “Rimsky-Korsakov”, Sofia, Shanghai, Cologne, and at the Royal Northern College of Music (Manchester). 

His career as an orchestral musician began at age 21 when he joined the Houston Symphony as Associate Principal Trumpet, and continued as Principal Trumpet of the San Diego Symphony and Rotterdam Philharmonic, recording frequently for EMI, Erato, Philips, Sony, and Virgin Classics. Many composers, including Sir Harrison Birtwistle, Larry Polansky, Bruce Adolphe, Anne LeBaron, and Paul Moravec have written pieces for him, and his many solo trumpet recordings of the baroque repertoire are found on the Sony, Vox, MHS, and Newport Classic labels. Edward Carroll succeeded his teacher at Juilliard, Gerard Schwarz, as Director of the New York Trumpet Ensemble (1979-1988). He founded the music programming of the Lake Placid Institute for the Arts and Humanities in1996 (Music Director 1996 – 2003), and is the editor of Gustav Mahler: the Complete Trumpet Parts (Universal Edition, Vienna). Edward Carroll is a Yamaha Performing Artist.
