“The trumpet could not have a more persuasive champion than Håkan Hardenberger!¨ BBC Music Magazine

Håkan Hardenberger is the greatest trumpet soloist today and it is not only for his phenomenal virtuosity that he is held in such high regard. Combining his inspired musicianship, technical mastery and unique presence, Håkan Hardenberger, alongside performances of the classical repertoire, is the most noted pioneer of new works for the trumpet. As Gramophone Records respectfully noted, “There can be few nobler pursuits than re-defining the limits of your instrument by commissioning new work or striving to perform existing pieces with new vigour. Hardenberger has achieved this peerlessly with nearly two decades of meticulously prepared and impeccably executed recordings”.

Håkan Hardenberger performs with the world’s leading orchestras, including the Los Angeles Philharmonic, Chicago Symphony, Vienna and London Philharmonics, London Symphony Orchestra, The Philharmonia, Orchester des Bayerische Rundfunk, Accademia Nazionale di Santa Cecilia and NHK Symphony Orchestra. Conductors he regularly collaborates with include Paavo Berglund, Pierre Boulez, Alan Gilbert, Daniel Harding, Neeme Järvi, Ingo Metzmacher, Esa-Pekka Salonen, John Storgårds, Thomas Dausgaard and David Zinman. He is a frequent guest at the major festivals of Lucerne, Salzburg and the BBC Proms, and has given recitals in the Konzerthaus Vienna, Wigmore Hall, Tonhalle Zürich and Musikhalle Hamburg.

The list of works written for, and championed by Hardenberger, now stand as key highlights in the trumpet repertoire including works of Sir Harrison Birtwistle, Hans Werner Henze, Rolf Martinsson, Olga Neuwirth, Arvo Pärt and Mark Anthony Turnage. HK Gruber’s concerto Aerial has received in excess of 40 performances by Hardenberger and will be highlighted at the 2007 Proms Brass Day with the BBC Philharmonic under the direction of André de Ridder. This Proms “special” also marks Hardenberger’s conducting debut with members of the BBC Philharmonic and Royal Northern College of Music Brass. Of Hardenberger’s extensive discography on the Philips, EMI and BIS Records labels two discs were released in 2006; solo works for BIS Records, and a disc of Turnage, Gruber and Eotv?s works with Gothenburg Symphony Orchestra and Peter Eötvös for Deutsche Grammophon which has justly received high praise.

Newly commissioned works in the 2007/08 season include a Luca Francesconi concerto with the Accademia Nazionale di Santa Caecilia directed by Antonio Pappano, and Kurt Schwertsik concerto with the Tonnkuenstler Orchestra and Kristjan Järvi in Vienna’s Musikverein. Olga Neuwirth’s concerto “O…miramando multiplo…” will be further performed with the Orchestre Philharmonique de Radio France and Ilan Volkov. Hardenberger premiered this work at the 2006 Salzburg Festival with the Vienna Philharmonic and Pierre Boulez, performed also with co-commissioning partner Royal Stockholm Philharmonic and Alan Gilbert. The latter engagement formed a major focus on Hardenberger in Stockholm’s Konserthuset, including performances of Henze’s Requiem, Gruber’s Aerial, the aforementioned Neuwirth, Haydn concerto, and Rolf Martinsson’s Bridge.
The 2007/2008 season also sees Hardenberger perform with Oslo Philharmonic, Bayerische Rundfunk (performing “Aerial” under the direction of the composer himself), City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra, Berlin Radio Orchestra, and the Camerata Salzburg, at the Salzburg Festival as Director-Soloist. On tour he performs with The Philharmonia in Brugge again performing under the baton of the composer whose work he will perform, Sir Peter Maxwell Davies. He tours a newly commissioned work of HK Gruber for trumpet, banjo and string orchestra with the Amsterdam Sinfonietta, and makes an extensive tour with the New Zealand Symphony.

In recital Håkan Hardenberger has several key partnerships; with pianists Aleksandar Madzar with whom he has toured to the USA, and Roland Pöntinen; a unique partnership with Swedish poet Jacques Werup and jazz pianist Jan Lundgren and with percussionist Colin Currie. Hardenberger and Currie can be heard on a newly released CD in 2007 and for the first time in the USA including a performance on one of North America’s most prestigious series, “San Francisco Performers”, where he also returns to perform with the Cincinnati Symphony and Paavo Järvi.

A professor at the Malmö Conservatoire, Hardenberger’s commitment to teaching is further recognised in his increased presence at the Royal Northern College of Music in Manchester where he is now a Fellow.

Håkan Hardenberger was born in Malmö, Sweden. He began studying the trumpet at the age of eight with Bo Nilsson in Malmö and continued his studies both at the Paris Conservatoire, with Pierre Thibaud, and in Los Angeles with Thomas Stevens.
