> ”From the very first moment I imagined a troubadour, who by the means of his art spreads news. That’s exactly what I want – by the means of my trumpet.”

Marco Blaauw has an international career as a soloist and is a member of the ensemble musikFabrik in Cologne, with whom he triggered a sensation as soloist in the American premiere of Stockhausen’s MICHAEL’S JOURNEY AROUND THE WORLD at the Lincoln Center Festival last summer.  Marco Blaauw's goal is the further development of the trumpet, its technique and its repertoire. He works in close collaboration both with the established and younger composers of our time. Many works have been written especially for Blaauw or have been inspired by his playing, including compositions by Peter Eötvös, Rebecca Saunders, Richard Ayres and Isabel Mundry. Since 1998, Marco Blaauw has worked intensely with Karlheinz Stockhausen, and has premiered solo roles in scenes of the opera cycle LICHT. In August 2008 he presented the premiere of "HARMONIES for trumpet" from the cycle KLANG for the BBC in the Royal Albert Hall. Some of the orchestras and new music ensembles with which he has performed as soloist are: the Dutch Radio Symphony Orchestra, the National Polish Radio Symphony Orchestra, WDR Radio Symphony Orchestra Cologne, the Deutsche Oper Berlin, Klangforum Wien, London Sinfonietta, Schoenberg Ensemble and musikFabrik. Marco Blaauw's performances are widely documented in radio and CD Recordings. The first Solo CD "Blaauw" of his upcoming solo series was released in September 2005, is second Solo CD, HOT, came out in October 2006. In 2007 he presented "Improvisation" a duo album with Gijsbrecht Roye. In 2009 the 4th CD, for trumpet and live electronics, will be released. He is also active as a teacher with notable residencies since 2003 at the Stockhausen Courses Kuerten and in 2004 and 2006 at the International Summer Courses for new music in Darmstadt. From August 2008 Marco Blaauw is guest docent at the Music College of Lucerne, Switzerland.


