Nancy Zeltsman is a leading marimba performer who has premiered over 130 solo and chamber marimba works—some of which are cornerstones of the literature. These include pieces by Alejandro Viñao and Paul Lansky (who wrote their first percussion works for her), Gunther Schuller, Louis Andriessen, Steven Mackey, Robert Aldridge, maestro Michael Tilson Thomas, pop legend Paul Simon, and jazz composers/pianists Lyle Mays and Carla Bley. Nancy has performed throughout the U.S. and Europe and in Mexico, Japan, and China as a soloist and chamber musician. Venues include the Tanglewood Festival of Contemporary Music, Zankel Hall at Carnegie Hall in New York, and subscription concerts with the San Francisico Symphony.

Zeltsman is a Professor at joint institutions Berklee College of Music and Boston Conservatory at Berklee and heads the Conservatory percussion department. She has taught marimba at both schools since 1993 in positions that were created for her. In the fall of 2013, she was appointed regular guest professor of marimba at Conservatorium van Amsterdam in the Netherlands. Since 2001, she has been Artistic Director of Zeltsman Marimba Festival, Inc. with the two-fold mission of musical training centered on the marimba, and bringing the marimba to concert audiences worldwide. The festival’s activities have included ZMF New Music (fostering 24 new works published as *Intermediate Masterworks for Marimba*) and ZMF On Tour (short festivals around the world taught by ZMF’s core faculty).

Nancy has recorded three solo marimba compact discs, three CDs with her marimbaviolin duo Marimolin, and was featured on a disc with Boston Modern Orchestra Project (W.T. McKinley’s marimba concerto), among others. She served four times as a member of the jury for the biennial Tromp Percussion Competition in Eindhoven, the Netherlands and many other competitions. Zeltsman is a Pearl/Adams Artist who worked with Adams Musical Instruments to design their “Alpha Z” model marimba. Her line of signature mallets is available from Encore Mallets. Nancy lives in Boston, Massachusetts. For more information, including links to videos, please visit: [nancyzeltsman.com](http://www.nancyzeltsman.com/).
