Inspired by natural processes and acoustic phenomena, composer and percussionist Nathan Davis makes music that elucidates essential characters of instruments and the fragile athleticism of playing them.  Writing "music that deals deftly and poetically with timbre and sonority" (NYTimes), he has received commissions from the International Contemporary Ensemble (ICE), the Calder String Quartet, the Ojai Festival (for Eighth Blackbird and an installation by sound-sculptor Trimpin), Miller Theater at Columbia University, Meehan/Perkins Duo, TimeTable Percussion, Concert Artists Guild, and the Moving Theater Dance Company, and received awards from the Jerome Foundation, American Music Center, Meet the Composer Commissioning Music USA, Argosy Foundation, MATA, ASCAP, and the ISCM. 

Lincoln Center inaugurated the new Tully Scope Festival in 2011 with the premiere of Nathan's 30 minute site-specific work "Bells", performed by ICE and praised by Anthony Tommasini in the NYTimes as "an alluring and pensive musical experience".  Nathan's music has also been programmed at NYC's Carnegie Hall, Merkin Hall, Le Poisson Rouge, Roulette, and at Darmstadt, Helsinki Musica Nova, and other festivals in North America, Poland, China, and Cuba.  Recordings of his music include a monograph of his chamber music performed by ICE entitled The Bright and Hollow Sky (one of TimeOut NY's top-10 classical albums of 2011), his electroacoustic percussion disc Memory Spaces, and pieces on flutist Claire Chase's debut Aliento and on Travel Diary from the Meehan/Perkins Duo. His music has also been featured on NPR's All Things Considered, on WNYC's New Sounds Live, and on Q2.

As a percussionist, Nathan is a core member of the International Contemporary Ensemble (ICE), and he has premiered hundreds of works, performing at NYC's Lincoln Center as an artist in residence for the Mostly Mozart Festival, at Carnegie Hall, Miller Theater, Merkin Hall, Le Poisson Rouge, Roulette, and internationally at Darmstadt, Koln, Helsinki Musica Nova, and other festivals in Holland, Poland, Russia, Bali, Turkey, and Cuba. In October, 2012, Nathan will make his concerto debut with the Seattle Symphony.  He has recorded for Nonesuch, Tzadik, Mode, Kairos, New Albion, Bridge, BMOP, Karnatic Lab, and Cold Blue records. 

A dedicated instructor, Nathan is on the faculty at Dartmouth College where he teaches percussion and directs the Contemporary Performance Lab.  He has given masterclasses on extended percussion techniques, composition, and electronics at UC Berkeley, CalArts, Rice, Baylor, Yale, the Longy School of Music, UMass Amherst, Georgia Tech, and the Akademia Muzyczna in Krakow, Poland, and been in residence at Harvard, Princeton, UCSD, Brown, and others. Nathan received his Masters from Yale, Bachelors degrees in both composition and percussion at Rice University, and was awarded a Fulbright Fellowship to study at the Rotterdams Conservatorium in Holland.

