Pacho Flores won the First Prize of the International Competition "Maurice André", the most outstanding trumpet competition in the world, as
Pacho Flores won the First Prize of the International Competition "Maurice André", the most outstanding trumpet competition in the world, as well as First Prize in the International Competition "Philip Jones" and First Prize in the International Competition "Città di Porcia". Born as an artist in El Sistema Venezuela, he has received recognition for his performances as a soloist, in recitals and for his recordings.

Equally developed in the classic and popular styles, Flores brings to his captivating interpretations a great energy nuanced by the most beautiful instrumental colors. As a soloist, he has performed with the Kiev Philharmonic, Camerata de San Petesburg, Orchestral Ensemble of Paris, Orchester de la Garde Républicaine, NHK Orchestra of Japan, Tokyo Symphony, Osaka Philharmonic, Simón Bolívar Symphony of Venezuela, Dusseldorf Symphony and Arctic Philharmonic among other orchestras. He has given recitals in venues such as Carnegie Hall in New York, Sala Pleyel in Paris, and Opera City in Tokyo. As a founding member of the Simón Bolívar Brass Quintet, he has participated in numerous tours throughout Europe, South America, the United States, and Japan. Experienced orchestral musician, Flores has performed as the first Trumpet of the Simón Bolívar Symphony Orchestra of Venezuela, Saito Kinen Orchestra of Japan, and Miami Symphony, under the direction of the masters Claudio Abbado, Sir Simon Rattle, Seiji Ozawa, Giusseppe Sinopoli, Rafael Frübeck de Burgos, Eduardo Marturet and Gustavo Dudamel among others. Founding Director of the Latin American Trumpet Academy in Venezuela, he cultivates a promising generation of young talents. Flores is an avid promoter of contemporary music and brings important contributions to both the performance and the interpretation of his instrument. His repertoire includes commissions and premieres of works by composers such as Roger Boutry, Efraín Oscher, Giancarlo Castro, Santiago Báez, Juan Carlos Nuñez and Sergio Bernal. He has recently made a major concert tour of Norway and Austria with Arctic Philharmonic under the direction of Maestro and Composer Christian Lindberg, performing his concert for Trumpet and Orchestra "Akbank Bunka", making his debut at the Festpielhaus in Salzburg and the Musikverein in Vienna . His first record album "La trumpet Venezolana" was released by the Guataca Producciones label.

A Stomvi Artist, he plays instruments made exclusively for him by this prestigious firm and actively participates in the developments and innovations of his instruments. Pacho Flores is an exclusive artist of Deutsche Grammophon, his first album with this famous label being the album "Cantar" and with whom he will produce a series of representative recordings of his abundant and varied musical concerns.
