Peter Evans is an American trumpet player based in New York, who specializes in improvisation and avant-garde music. Evans has been a member of the New York City musical community since 2003, when he moved to the city after graduating from The Oberlin Conservatory of Music. Peter currently works in a wide variety of areas, including solo performance, chamber orchestras, performance art, free improvised settings, electro acoustic music and composition. In addition, he performs regularly as part of the Festival of New Trumpet Music, which is held annually in New York City.

Evans has toured throughout the United States, Canada, Italy, and England. His solo trumpet album, More Is More was released on Evan Parker’s psi label in 2006, and his debut album as a leader, titled simply The Peter Evans Quartet, was released by Firehouse 12 in 2007.

He performs often with his quartet (with Brandon Seabrook, Tom Blancarte, and Kevin Shea), Moppa Elliot’s quartetMostly Other People Do the Killing, the hyperactive free-improvisation duo Sparks (with Tom Blancarte), the Histrionics, the free-jazz quintet Carnival Skin (with Klaus Kugel, Perry Robinson, Hilliard Greene and Bruce Eisenbeil), the Language Of with Charles Evans, the “Christmas Duo” with trombonist Sam Kulik, as well as a sustained interest in solo performance.

In New York, Peter also performs contemporary notated music with groups such as the International Contemporary Ensemble, Alarm Will Sound, Continuum, and Ensemble 21. He has continued to perform on piccolo trumpet in Baroquesettings, performing Brandenburg Concerto No. 2 at the Bargemusic series, and in Bach’s Mass in B Minor at St. Peter’s Church. Other recent collaborators include: Mary Halvorson, Dave Taylor, Mark Gould, Perry Robinson, Fred Frith, Brian Chase (drummer for the Yeah Yeah Yeahs), Nate Wooley, Zach Hill (drummer for Hella), Stefan Tcherepnin, Chris McCintyre, Dave Reminick, Ned Rothenberg, Okkyung Lee, Briggan Krauss, Chris Speed, Weasel Walter, and Andrew Drury.