Robyn Schulkowsky, percussionist, born and raised in South Dakota has been an innovator and collaborator throughout her life. Schulkowsky moved to Germany during a heyday of experimental and adventurous classical composition. She has premiered and recorded some of the most important percussion works of the 20th and 21st centuries. In 2014 she will be at THE SAGE, Gateshead, England, directing their 10 year anniversary celebration with a percussion project, including up to 300 musicians from the region. Schulkowsky has long followed her particular passion for education. Since 1998, as founder of Rhythm Lab, Schulkowsky has taken rhythm workshops to countless cities, incorporating indigenous drumming music from around the globe, and involving students, professionals and aficionados alike in workshops, study, and concerts. In 2005 Space And Frequency Rhythm Lab premiered for 10 days in the Vanderbilt Hall of New York City’s Grand Central Station. In 2009, working with 100 students from various backgrounds, she created a new music theatre project based on the story of Antigone. Last year she released for New World Records her percussion trio Armadillo with Joey Baron and Freddy Studer and 8 Duos with music by Christian Wolff. Along with her percussion band, Glorious Percussion and in addition to her usual solo recitals, the Drumssummit in Bonn, improvisation projects and concerts, Schulkowsky is also the subject of a film by artist Manon De Boer. Schulkowsky’s talents have been recognized by numerous music awards in Germany, and the multi-faceted composer and performer is also sought-after as chamber music coach.
