Trumpet virtuoso and conductor Stephen Burns is the Artistic Director of the Fulcrum Point New Music Project in Chicago. Winner of the First Prize at the second (1988) Maurice Andre International Competition for Trumpet in France, Mr. Burns is a former tenured Professor of Music at Indiana University and Visiting Lecturer at the Arturo Toscanini Foundation Corso MYTHOS in Bologna, Italy. Stephen Burns has performed in the major concert halls of New York, Boston, Washington DC, Los Angeles, Houston, Vancouver, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Paris, and Venice. He has been a guest at the White House and has appeared on NBC’s “Today Show” and NPR’s “All Things Considered”. 

In recent seasons he has appeared with many leading international orchestras including the Atlanta Symphony under Neeme Jarvi, The Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra under Iona Brown, The Ensemble Orchestral de Paris, The Arturo Toscanini Orchestra of Parma, the Japan National Philharmonic, Seattle Symphony under Gerard Schwarz, and a United States tour with the Leipzig Kammerorkester. Stephen Burns’ recital programs often feature his own transcriptions of Falla’s El Amor Brujo, Prokofiev’s Lt. Kije, and Mussorgsky’s Pictures at an Exhibition, the latter scored for trumpet, cornet, flugelhorn, piccolo trumpet, bass trumpet, and piano. He was invited, in 1988, to create innovative new music programs as the Artist in Residence with Performing Arts Chicago, assuming the role of Artistic Director of the Fulcrum Point New Music Project and the American Concerto Orchestra, whose mission it is to champion classical music influenced and inspired by Pop culture, Jazz, Rock, Blues, Latin, Folk, Klezmer, World Music, literature, film, art, dance, and theatre. Mr. Burns has given numerous premiers by American composers (Ned Rorem, David Stock, Gunther Schuller, Robert Rodriguez, Philip Glass) as well as composers of international renown (Stockhausen, Franck Amsellem, Somei Satoh, Sallinen). 

Committed to new music, Mr. Burns has written for trumpet, electronic music, chamber music, and symphony orchestra. His composition Reflections, a work created in collaboration with choreographer Ruby Shang, was performed around the Henry Moore reflecting pool at Lincoln Center. In 1993 he composed and performed the Inaugural Fanfare for the Kuhmon Talon Concert Hall and his most recent composition, Variations in America, was premiered in Hyannis, MA as part of their Independence Day celebration. He is currently composing Phalanx, a multi-media work based upon American military musical themes. Stephen Burns is a Yamaha Performing Artist.
