Thomas Stevens was appointed to the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra in 1965 by then music director, Zubin Mehta, who named him principal trumpet in 1972, a position he held until 1999. He served in the same capacity with the “Orchestra of the World,” Sir George Solti’s hand-picked group assembled in Geneva for the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, and the Casals Festival Orchestra in Puerto Rico. The Los Angeles appointment was preceded by a stint in the U.S. Army as solo trumpeter with the United States Military Academy Band at West Point followed by a one year engagement with the Dallas Symphony Orchestra. In addition to his work as an orchestral musician, Mr. Stevens has performed and recorded as a soloist and chamber musician with major organizations, worldwide, including the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center. 

He was a founding member of the Los Angeles Brass Quintet and also maintained an active presence in the Hollywood recording studios for many years, working on motion picture and television soundtrack recordings. Thomas Stevens is perhaps best known for his activities in the promotion, performance, and premier recordings of new music for solo trumpet. His efforts have resulted in works which have become staples of the genre, including compositions by Frank Campo, Robert Henderson, William Kraft, Henri Lazarof, Robert Hall Lewis, and Luciano Berio, whose “Sequenza X” was written expressly for him. Mr. Stevens’ solo and chamber music recordings are available on the BMG-RCA Classics, CRI, DDG, London/Decca, DRG, Sony/CBS Classics, and Summit record labels. The solo CDs under his own name are on Crystal Records. Mr.Stevens’ principal publisher for educational materials and musical compositions is Editions Bim (Switzerland) Some works are published by Alphonse Leduc, (Paris) Billaudot, (Paris) International, (NYC) and Wimbledon Music. (Century City)
